# 52167assessments

These PYTHON files were written using SPYDER 3.2.4.  SPYDER is part of the ANAOCONDA 5.01 package (Anaconda3-5.0.1-Windows-x86_64).  url = https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/packages/pkg-docs . 
It uses PYTHON 3.6.3 64bits, Qt 5.6.2, PyQt5 5.6 for Windows.

## EXERCISE 01
Please complete the following exercise this week. In the video lectures this 
week we ran an example program that calculated the 30th Fibonacci number. 
Change the program to calculate the nth Fibonacci number where n the sum of 
the first and last letters of your first name as numbers. 
Take A as the number 1, B as 2, C as 3, and so on. 
For example, my name is Ian, so I should calculate the 25th Fibonacci number 
because I is 9 and n is 14, giving 25 in total.

#### SCRIPT/CODE
	gmit--exercise01--fibonacci--20180123.py
#### SCRIPT/CODE AND OUTPUT
	gmit--exercise01--fibonacci--20180123--output.txt

## EXERCISE02
Above is a link to a program I wrote that works similarly to last week's 
exercise. Copy and run the program yourself. Change the string variable 
to contain your own surname, and rerun it. Can you figure out what ord()
does? Try to Google it to find out. Post the output of the program, along
with any insight you have as to what ord() does, to the discussions forum.

#### SCRIPT/CODE	
	gmit--exercise02--fibonacci--20180130.py
#### OUTPUT FROM SCRIPT/CODE
	gmit--exercise02--fibonacci--20180130--output.txt	
	
## EXERCISE01 & EXERCISE02
This is an amalgamation of Exercise01 & Exercise02
	
#### SCRIPT/CODE FOR EXERCISE01 & 02
	gmit--exercise01--and--exercise02--code.py	
#### SCRIPT/CODE AND OUTPUT FOR EXERCISE01 & 02
	gmit--exercise01--and--exercise02--code--and-output.py
#### OUTPUT FROM EXERCISE01 & 02
	gmit--exercise01--and--exercise02--output.txt
	
## EXERCISE03
Please complete the following exercise this week. In the video lectures we 
discussed the Collatz conjecture. Complete the exercise discussed in the 
Collatz conjecture video by writing a single Python script that starts with
an integer and repeatedly applies the Collatz function (divide by 2 if even,
multiply by three and 1 if odd) using a while loop and if statement. At each
iteration, the current value of the integer should be printed to the screen.
You can specify in your code the starting value of 17. If you wish to enhance
your program, have the program ask the user for the integer instead of 
specifying a value at the start of your code.

#### SCRIPT/CODE	
	gmit--exercise03--collatz--code--20180205d.py
#### SCRIPT/CODE AND OUTPUT IN ONE FILE
	gmit--exercise03--collatz--code-and-output--20180205d.py
#### OUTPUT FROM SCRIPT/CODE
	gmit--exercise03--collatz--output--20180205d.txt
	
## EXERCISE04
PROJECT EULER - Problem 2.  The sum of all even Fibonacci numbers whose result is under 4,000,000.
Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. 
By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:
1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...
By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

#### SCRIPT/CODE
    gmit--exercise04--problem02--fibonacci-even-values-under-4million--code--20180224.py
#### SCRIPT/CODE IN ONE FILE
	gmit--exercise04--problem02--fibonacci-even-values-under-4million--code-and-output--20180224.py
#### OUTPUT FROM SCRIPT/CODE
	gmit--exercise04--problem02--fibonacci-even-values-under-4million--output--20180224.txt

## PROJECT EULER - Problem 4
A palindromic number reads the same both ways. The largest palindrome made from 
the product of two 2-digit numbers is 9009 = 91 × 99.
Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two 3-digit numbers.
####  SCRIPT/CODE 
	gmit--exercise04--problem04--largest-palindrome--code--20180224.py
####  SCRIPT/CODE AND OUTPUT IN ONE FILE
	gmit--exercise04--problem04--largest-palindrome--code-and-output--20180224.py
#### OUTPUT FROM SCRIPT/CODE	
	gmit--exercise04--problem04--largest-palindrome--output--20180224.txt
	

## PROJECT EULER - Problem 5
It is problem 5 from Project Euler. The problem is as follows. 2,520 is the 
smallest number that can be divided by each of the numbers from 1 to 10 
without any remainder. Write a Python program using for and range to 
calculate the smallest positive number that is evenly divisible by all 
of the numbers from 1 to 20.  I disagree with the 'official' answer.

#### SCRIPT/CODE 
	gmit--exercise04--problem05--Smallest multiple--code--20180224.py
#### SCRIPT/CODE AND OUTPUT IN ONE FILE
	gmit--exercise04--problem05--Smallest multiple--code-and-output--20180224.py
#### OUTPUT FROM SCRIPT/CODE	
	gmit--exercise04--problem05--Smallest multiple--output--20180224.txt


## EXERCISE05
A Python script that reads the Iris data set in and prints the four numerical 
values on each row in a nice format. That is, on the screen should be printed
the petal length, petal width, sepal length and sepal width, and these values
should have the decimal places aligned, with a space between the columns.
 
#### SCRIPT/CODE
	gmit--exercise05--reading-csv-file--code--20180303a.py
#### SCRIPT/CODE AND OUTPUT IN ONE FILE
    gmit--exercise05--reading-csv-file--code-and--output--20180303a.py
#### OUTPUT FROM SCRIPT/CODE	
	gmit--exercise05--reading-csv-file--output--20180303a.txt	
#### INPUT FILE
    iris.csv


## EXERCISE06
Write a Python script containing a function called factorial() that takes a single input/argument which is a positive integer and returns its factorial.  The factorial of a number is that number multiplied by all of the positive numbers less than it.  For example, the factorial of 5 is 5x4x3x2x1 which equals 120. You should, in your script, test the function by calling it with 
the values 5, 7, and 10.
 
#### SCRIPT/CODE
	gmit--exercise06--factorial--20180308a.py
#### SCRIPT/CODE AND OUTPUT IN ONE FILE
    gmit--exercise06--factorial--code-and-output--20180308a.py
#### OUTPUT FROM SCRIPT/CODE	
	gmit--exercise06--factorial--output--20180308a.txt

